Migration guide for `toggleableActiveColor` (#6626)
flutter/website: src/release/breaking-changes/toggleable-active-color.md

---

> title: ThemeData's toggleableActiveColor property have been deprecated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: ThemeData's toggleableActiveColor property has been deprecated
```

description: Material Widgets that use toggleableActiveColor property are migrated to use Material ColorScheme.
---

## Summary

> The Material widgets `Switch`, `SwitchListTile`, `Checkbox`, `CheckboxListTile`, `Radio`, `RadioListTile` now use `ColorScheme.secondary` color for their toggleable widget. `ThemeData.toggleableActiveColor` is deprecated and will eventually be removed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Material widgets `Switch`, `SwitchListTile`, `Checkbox`,
`CheckboxListTile`, `Radio`, and `RadioListTile` now use
the `ColorScheme.secondary` color for their toggleable widget.
The `ThemeData.toggleableActiveColor` property is deprecated and will eventually be removed.
```

> The widgets such as Switch, `SwitchListTile`, `Checkbox`, `CheckboxListTile`, `Radio`, `RadioListTile` have been adopted to use `ColorScheme.secondary` color for its toggleable widget. `ThemeData.toggleableActiveColor` is deprecated and will eventually be removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Material widgets `Switch`, `SwitchListTile`, `Checkbox`, `CheckboxListTile`, `Radio`, `RadioListTile` now use `ColorScheme.secondary` color for their toggleable widget. `ThemeData.toggleableActiveColor` is deprecated and will eventually be removed.
```

## Context

> Migration of widgets that depends on `ThemeData.toggleableActiveColor` to `ColorScheme.secondary` rendered toggleableActiveColor unuse, hence the deprecationn of this theme property.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The migration of widgets that depend on `ThemeData.toggleableActiveColor`
to `ColorScheme.secondary` caused  the `toggleableActiveColor` property
to be unnecessary. This property will eventually be removed, as per Flutter's
[deprecation policy]({{site.url}}/resources/compatibility#deprecation-policy).
```

## Description of change

> The widgets using `ThemeData.toggleableActiveColor` color for the selected state now use `ColorScheme.secondary`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The widgets using `ThemeData.toggleableActiveColor` color for the active/selected state now use `ColorScheme.secondary`.
```

> The widgets using `ThemeData.toggleableActiveColor` color for the active/selected state now use `ColorScheme.secondary`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The widgets using `ThemeData.toggleableActiveColor` color for the
active/selected state now use `ColorScheme.secondary`.
```

> The widgets using `ThemeData.toggleableActiveColor` color for selected state now uses `ColorScheme.secondary` color.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The widgets using `ThemeData.toggleableActiveColor` color for the selected state now use `ColorScheme.secondary`.
```

## Migration guide

> In order to customize toggleable widgets selected color, remnove `ThemeData.toggleableActiveColor` and customize `ColorScheme.secondary` instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to customize toggleable widgets' selected color, remove `ThemeData.toggleableActiveColor` and customize `ColorScheme.secondary` instead.
```

> Toggleable widgets' active/selected color can generally customized in 3 ways at the widget-level using components themes `SwitchThemeData`, `ListTileThemeData`, `CheckboxThemeData`, and `RadioThemeData` using `ColorScheme.secondary`.

Reviewer 2: @TahaTesser, I'm struggling with the following sentence. What are the 3 ways
you can customize the toggleable widget's active color? You list 4 ThemeData
classes and the ColorScheme class. So, I count either 5 ways, or 2 ways,
depending on how you count. Not 3. Can you clarify?
```suggestion
Toggleable widgets' active/selected color can generally customized in 3 ways
at the widget level using components themes `SwitchThemeData`, `ListTileThemeData`,
`CheckboxThemeData`, and `RadioThemeData` using `ColorScheme.secondary`.
```

Author: Thanks so much, I realized that it wasn't clear. I just updated this section.

Code before migration:

<!-- skip -->
```dart
MaterialApp(
  theme: ThemeData(toggleableActiveColor: myColor),
  // ...
);
```

Code after migration:

<!-- skip -->
```dart
final ThemeData theme = ThemeData();
MaterialApp(
  theme: theme.copyWith(
    colorScheme: theme.colorScheme.copyWith(secondary: myColor),
  ),
  //...
)
```

## Timeline

Landed in version: 2.9.0-1.0.pre.209<br>
In stable release: not yet

## References

API documentation:

> * [`toggleableActiveColor`][]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [`ThemeData.toggleableActiveColor`][]
```
